add minutes for review (#2)
open-make/open.make-mainrepo: 01_project_management/03_meeting_minutes/2021-08-26-prekickoff.md

# Prekickoff meeting

Meeting was mostly in German, minutes are mostly in English. The notes are not exhaustive.

## People

- Robert Mies, Wirtschaft engineer, PhD (5 Jahren), want to continue as a postdoc
- Tim, Bioinformatics FU, had 2 supervisor als bachelor, master und phd (biologist/informatician).  postdoc in California, back to berlin: interest in emerging properties of social interactions: Modell systeme/human social interaction. method: robots. OSH: all robots components are OS in theory, no documentation there. - future: job until 2026, maybe company building
- Julien, data manager CRC1315. phd 2007 in CH, postdoc in FR, postdoc2 in DE. moved to open science and open data in 2014-2015.

> - Moritz, Berlin born. Informatics at the FU, IT security, went to Tim as master student, now PhD (50% h2020 project), is angry about the current system and fixability of hardware. Work on closed loop hardware. Electrofish (robofish but bigger + electric signals).

Author: ```suggestion
- Moritz, Berlin born. Informatics at the FU, IT security, went to Tim as master student, now PhD (50% h2020 project), is frustrated with the current system and fixability of hardware. Work on closed loop hardware. Electrofish (robofish but bigger + electric signals).
```

## Diverse interesting discussions

- Doing a PhD in engineering. 
  - pdf sent with more info 
  - TIM: previous Phd students: engeneering first, then biology, some are leaving at that point. 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
-  something where profit for makers is visible/comes fast would be preferable (postdocs are on 2 years contracts)
```

- why not OS in Tim lab:  no expertise / no time, need for perfection, personal is temporary. Niche products, difficult to find time.
- Makers have niche compentencies

- Collecting best practices and community wishes

  - Focus on Germany, or being international (country differences in career)
  - Focus on academia or industry wishes (as job providers)
  - researchers doing hardware VERSUS engineers doing research ?

- relation to GOSH: none yet.

- Hardware often not build to be expanded: need to start from scratch
- Documentation which is not organised is too difficult to navigate.

## Project reviews

- we do not know what the product is, and should work this way (more research, less tool building)
- define added value of open FAIR hardware.
- vermarktung and kritische masse: 
    - force11 and policy way
    - include researcher from the start
- relation to patent - relation to open licenses for hardware    

## Expected outcomes

> - (M.M) something where profit for makers is visible/comes fast

Author: ```suggestion
- (M.M) improve my skillset
```

> - (M.M) something where profit for makers is visible/comes fast

Author: moved comment to interesting discussion

- (JC) I want to develop my career in the open science field
- Robert M
  - instute become visible in BUA
  - open innovation -> open hardware, quality assessment (process verstehen - IT building - community and businees model)
  - Understand the Open source hardware process 
  - Build a quality management for that process
  - maybe bring that back into the industry.
  - qualification in the academic bereich, scholarly communication
  - new possibilities (career wise)
  - Search where we can move things (and move it)
  - Build policy for hardware.
- Tim 
  - Best practices to give to new PhD students (documentation and team work practices)
  - Guidance on who should be hired
  - Better PhD written
  - Get extra recognition by funder and community
  - "Open everything" is a lab policy
  - (M.M) Get a better view of research, do something good for the world, getting independent of closed source hardware.
  
- motivations  
  - hardware and relation to society.  
  - my lab 

## Project management

- Static Website, blog platform (hugo)
- one public repo + at least one private (data protection)
- one meeting every two weeks at least (Monday 14h, first sept. 6)

> - We are starting the work, even if the contracts are not signed.

Author: ```suggestion
- We are starting the work, even if the contracts are not signed. (we will try to annonce when people are hired.
```
